Add post for Dec 24: Using Go in Devops (#326)
gopheracademy/gopheracademy-web: content/advent-2018/go-devops.md

#### Cross Compilation
Having everything in the binary makes things simple, being able to cross compile it makes things simple even in organizations where everyone have their own setup: in order for a binary to be supported on the different operating systems all it takes is setting the 2 environment variables: $GOOS, $GOARCH. No need for a virtual environment, a package manager or managing dependencies. This is a great feature for CLIs, and indeed some of the most popular ones are using it: etcdctl, kubectl and docker.

Here's a partial list:

|  $GOOS  | $GOARCH |       OS       |
|---------|---------|----------------|
| darwin  | 386     | 32 bit MacOSX  |
| darwin  | amd64   | 64 bit MacOSX  |
| linux   | 386     | 32 bit Linux   |
| linux   | amd64   | 64 bit Linux   |
| linux   | arm     | RISC Linux     |
| windows | 386     | 32 bit Windows |
| windows | amd64   | 64 bit Windows |

#### Composition, Not Inheritance
Staying out of inheritance confusion.

#### The Standard Librart
Many of the packages in the standard library are the building blocks of the Ops toolbox like handling web services with different protocols like HTTP/HTTP2,

> and file processing: path, download, open, process, time, json, regex, etc. No need for keeping track what is the currently standard package or external software for the bsaic operations, or switching if it gets deprecated. As these are all in the standard library - they are all lofficially maintained, well documented and in use across all the developers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and file processing: path, download, open, process, time, json, regex, etc. No need for keeping track what is the current standard package or external software for the basic operations, or switching if it gets deprecated. As these are all in the standard library - they are all officially maintained, well documented and in use across developers. 
```

> While the std lib is not big but is wisely composed of packages that proof useful for an OPS/SRE person

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the std lib is not big but is wisely composed of packages that proved useful for an OPS/SRE person.
```

### Reliable

#### Pointers Exist, Pointer Arithmetic Doesn’t
Stayin safe!

#### Error Handling

> Planning clearly for errors and acting upon them as values, rather than having error exceptions, makes the execution smoother.as values.

Reviewer: > [..] execution **smoother.as values**. (sic)

Seems, there's a typo.

#### Open Source
Go is backed by an amazing community, companies who are using the language for years now, and by industry giants like Google, Microsoft, Apple and more (did you know that SpaceX is using Go?). So by now, the language is here to stay.

#### Data Types

> Go is Type safe and strongly typed, which means that string operations on an int cannot happen, because it will be caight by the compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go is Type safe and strongly typed, which means that string operations on an int cannot happen because the compiler will catch it.
```

The added bonus of slice being a memory efficient abstraction built on top of the array type is making some of the operations significantly faster.

### Fast

#### Fast Compilation and Execution 
As the compiler will fail the run if there are unused imports, the compilation time is short and binary size is small. As the code is compiled to machine code - it will also execute fast. Think of running millions of inputs through sed or a bash loop, how much faster will it be in Go?

#### Garbage Collection

> As in many languages, the garbace collector is  a controversial topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As in many languages, the garbace collector is a controversial topic.
```

In short - there are default values, and they can be changed for optimal performance.
In more detail - there are some great articles

#### Import-Defined Dependencies 
All the dependencies are included in the binary, which saves any extra steps for carrying the dependencies alongside the binary.

#### Fast Performing
Many benchmarks were done. [Here's](https://stackimpact.com/blog/practical-golang-benchmarks/) a rather comprehensive list. It's just really fast!

## To Summarize

> Go is a great language for building fast and reliable web services. Many times it also makes a great fit for work needed to make sure these services are working as they should. It's of course important to choose the right tool for the task, so apply critical thinking and consider using Go for more than web development, and use more of the (few but growing) resource pool of using Go for DevOps. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go is a great language for building fast and reliable web services. Many times it also makes a great fit for work needed to make sure these services are working as they should. It's, of course, important to choose the right tool for the task, so apply critical thinking and consider using Go for more than web development, and use more of the (few but growing) resource pool of using Go for DevOps. 
```
